All right, so we have our job description
people are flooding the gates.
There's so
many people excited to apply to your role.
You need to now start being
prepared to interview folks.
So I call this out,
is like don't take it for granted and
you need to think about this.
Every company is different.
Some companies are very specific
on like this is how we interview.
At Netflix,
we haven't taken that approach.
It is really up to the manager to set
that tone on how they want to interview.
You can adapt and change it for like,
I might be hiring a UI engineer.
Maybe I'm hiring a back engineer,
maybe I'm hiring a TPM.
They're going to vary.
And so I want to think about
what's the most effective way,
what do I need to get out of the for
the role and evaluate that.
So I think about that is important to
think about how are you going to interview
this person, what's important to evaluate.
So think about creating a panel.
Put together a plan.
This is super helpful, do it.
It's not only helpful for
you to think about reflecting
on what you want to evaluate.
But it really helps set others up
on your panel, up for success.
And make sure that they're evaluating for
the right things.
Be explicit on that, make sure
that they have that understanding.
There's been so many times I've been
thrown on interviews, and I'm like,
what am I supposed to cover?
Because nobody told me,
I can ask questions.
But then what if like, three other persons
people ask the same question on that
panel, not the greatest candidate's
experience, but also that managers who's
hiring just got ,didn't really get as much
depth that they should on evaluating.
So I like to also outline what each
interview panels responsible for.
Obviously, you know there might be for
interviewing for
engineers there's going
to be technical panels so
what's the technical exercise they're
going through what's it evaluating?
What should the engineer
on my team be looking for?
Those are good things to highlight.
But then maybe I have someone like Jem,
who's a partner team that I work with.
I'm like, Jem, I want you to focus on how
will this person collaborate with you and
your team?
Here's some types of things
I want you to look for.
It makes his life easier, but then I
also have a better understanding that
he's evaluated for that
>> What's
your take on live coding
exercises interviews?
>> That's a good question,
I personally like to give options.
So there's, you know, especially when I
think of that early technical screen,
some people really actually like
the live one, others do not.
I want to try and give people the option
to like what's going to be best for
them to show up.
It could be a take-home exercise and
that can be helpful and
people will opt into that.
But also, I've been in the scenario
where if I'm interviewing a lot,
I don't want to spend eight
hours on a take-home exercise.
That's a lot.
And so if I've got five of those,
that's a lot.
But if I can jump on a call for
45 minutes to an hour and
we can do something live coding,
that works.
I've not liked coding in a Google Doc.
I've had to do that.
That's daunting.
I don't didn't feel good on that.
I don't like it just feels out of
my nature to code in a Google Doc.
And also you have someone watching you
just as you're typing and it's awkward.
So I think thinking about those types
of things is really important to.
It's like what tools are you giving for
someone.
>> One thing I would add, if you do do it,
make sure your environment that you're
having them code in is working.
>> Yes.
>> Because I had an interview where
the environment wasn't working properly.
>> Yeah.
>> And that prevented me from being able
to code properly.
>> Absolutely.
And I think sometimes even if
you use things like code pen or
there's a lot of different ones that you
can kind of set something up where it's at
least giving them a coding environment.
Give them that ahead of time to, so
you can have your recruiter or yourself or
someone who's getting in touch with them
and is like you'll be using code pen.
And like letting them know ahead of time,
here's a link to it, just so
that they can actually get that set up and
feel comfortable.
Nobody likes entering an interview or
they're having technical difficulties.
That sucks.
It throws people off their game.
And that's you want them to be set up for
success.
So that's a really good question.
Also have alternatives for
your interview panel.
This is an important one too, even
especially on the engineers on my team,
I think about it's like I don't want
to overload one person with a ton of
technical interviews.
And often I mean that too is like
you usually have like split up
where it's like technical is usually
going, a lot of candidates are going to go
through a technical interview,
they may not make it to like a round two.
But you don't want to
overload one engineer.
Maybe one engineer loves doing that.
That's a different story and
if they want to do that great, but
I often like to try and have two or
three engineers that are alternating, and
that if recruiting setting that up,
it's clear in my plan.
It's like Joe, Sally and
Mark are all here available.
You can pick and
choose by the calendar who's available.
And you're trying to sequence them, so
that they're not all getting bombarded
with one, or
one of them is getting bombarded.
Jim,
>> As a still a newer manager,
I'm still getting hiring.
It's a lot of work.
>> Yes.
>> It's way more work than I ever
expected.
A mistake I made very recently
was not getting my filters right.
So, what I did was I sent home,
I did a lot of take homes, and
like take homes are great.
I think they're the better experience for,
for candidates, but take homes,
take a lot of time to grade.
And I was taking so
much of my team time, like hours and
hours reviewing these take homes
when really I should have done.
Probably like a live coding first,
because that's much faster, and
then do the take home.
And I just didn't think about how
much time was my team taking and
how much time my partner is taking
to review all these people.
So, learn from my mistakes,
get your filters right early,
otherwise it's just really expensive
to review like, dozens of people.
>> Yeah, I love that color but I also
love you like surfacing the mistake,
because you make those mistakes and
you iterate and adjust and learn.
I love it.
Mark.
>> Hiring can be hard to fit
in with the busy schedule.
What percentage of your
time should be spent on?
>> Yeah.
>> Hiring and recruiting.
>> It depends.
I do often say, or
I've said it many times,
I feel like hiring is a full-time job,
on top of your job.
And I'm not saying that you should
work double hours or anything, but
it is exactly what Jem said.
Is it takes up more time than you expect,
and it's really important.
You want to hire the right person,
you want to spend that time.
It is a lot of work, but
it's also very rewarding.
And also when you get it right,
that's the good thing.
It's also expensive doing
all that interviewing.
If you get it wrong, it happens,
don't beat yourself up about it.
But you have to go back to the drawing
board and start over and that's, you know,
that's expensive to you and the team.
You might have onboarded them and
then they, two, three months,
they didn't work out.
You're having to go back to the drawing
board and that's, that's tough.
I don't know how to say it,
like my percentage of it.
I do think about hiring, all the time.
Even if I'm not hiring I do want to
have some bit of like percentage
of my time thinking about like even
just staying in touch with people.
I talk about it later on
the sourcing side and networking of,
I want to be of always be networking type
mentality .Where you are thinking about
like well what happens if
someone leaves tomorrow?
I want to have that pipeline of
people that I'm thinking about that
could be potentially good for the role.
Also, they might not be ready
to leave their company, and so
just keeping a pulse on
that can be really helpful.
>> Yeah, I put it in chat,
but I just wanted to share.
I had an experience not too long ago
with a company called Brilliant and
this outsourcing company
they used to call Woven.
It's by far the best candidate experience
I've ever had on live coding exercises.
There was a PR review that was
given about 30 minutes to complete.
A bug-finding exercise in a live coding
environment that was given about 30
minutes to complete.
And then a function coding exercise that
I think was given about 60 minutes to
complete.
And they were all very well-scoped.
They were setting clear expectations ahead
of time of, like what's achievable and
what's not.
And also what's expected of you, like
it's okay if it doesn't pass every test.
These are kind of the like, good, great
and excellent brackets of what achievement
would look like and it was paid
>> So I just-
>> That's a good one.
>> I have considered looking into
Woven for our company as well,
because I was blown away with
how amazing that process was.
I thought it was really well
all-encompassing of like what a technical
exercise like what does
a technical contributor do?
And kind of capturing all of
those different skill sets and
they give great feedback also of like,
here's what you did.
Well, here's what we would have
liked to have seen differently.
>> Man, like I love all that.
I've never done the paid part too.
But like when you're asking someone
to spend eight hours on an exercise.
That's time is valuable to all of us.
Time is such an important thing.
So I like that call out.
And I like setting expectations.
I do talk about like, how do we
make a great candidate experience.
That is absolutely said is like,
setting expectations.
Let people know and understand what
they need to do to show up well.
Do you want to set them up for success?
You're not telling them
exactly what to do, but
just giving them great instructions.
Goes a long way
>> Yeah this kind of goes back to the job
description aspect, is there a difference
or do you have to the process of how
you would write your job description for a
prospective employee versus the recruiter?
Cause the recruiter kind of has to
digest that job description and then,
obviously, filter down candidates for you.
>> Yeah, that's a really good question.
So even in that interview plan that
I talked about, I will often have
a lot more internal thinking that's
maybe not in the job description,
to just even help a recruiter or
others like Jem being a partner team.
They can read that and
kind of understand some of the things.
It might even be talking
about upcoming projects or
something on there that I don't want to
necessarily blast to the whole world.
Not that it's, like, bad, but
it's just like, I might talk in person or
have a recruiter even say like, yeah,
Ryan's team, they're going to be
starting to invest in this project
called X, Y, and Z or whatever.
And they can have a little bit of
verbiage to speak to that and go,
it's like, yeah, it's like.
A react code base,
they're leveraging TypeScript, or
just giving some more insights.
Might be in the job description, but
they have a little bit more information.
And you're helping set the recruiter
up for success to be able to answer
questions, or any of the partnering teams,
or anyone on your interview panel.
So I think, yes, thank you, good call out.
Is like, that's why having that.
You know, like I said, have a plan.
It just helps everyone on your panel.
>> You answered.
>> Perfect.
I love that when that happens.
Here's an example of just
like this would be a really.
I actually probably even have
more to a simple section, but
let's say it was that
collaborative partnership one.
Am I tell Jim like try and
get like I don't want to,
I don't care if someone like Jim
writes his own questions, but
giving him an idea of what I'm looking for
is really helpful.
And so I might even have suggestions for
questions but like, definitely,
I don't want to be prescriptive on that.
But these are things that I'm looking for
that I want you to try and
tease out and
be able to answer in the feedback.
Like, how did they do on these things?
And if there's gaps that helps me.
I can evaluate that if they're
not the best partner, but
they're not going to
the park on everything else.
Maybe that's okay, and
that's an area that I can help coach.
So that's why it's really important
to try and think through this.
And like what are you trying
to get out of each section?